Add metadata fields for mappings (content gap initiative) (#6933)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/metadata-fields/source.md

---
layout: default
title: Source
nav_order: 40
parent: Metadata fields
---

# Source

The `_source` field contains the original JSON document body that was indexed. While this field is not searchable, it is stored so that the full document can be returned when executing fetch requests, such as `get` and `search`.

## Disabling the field

> You can disable the `_source` field by setting the `enabled` parameter to `false`, as shown in the following request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable the `_source` field by setting the `enabled` parameter to `false`, as shown in the following example request:
```

```json
PUT sample-index1
{
  "mappings": {
    "_source": {
      "enabled": false
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Disabling the `_source` field can impact the availability of certain features, such as the `update`, `update_by_query`, and `reindex` APIs, as well as the ability to debug queries or aggregations using the original indexed document.
{: .warning}

## Including or excluding fields

> You can selectively control the contents of the `_source` field by using the `includes` and `excludes` parameters. This allows you to prune the stored `_source` field after indexing, but before it is saved. See the following example request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can selectively control the contents of the `_source` field by using the `includes` and `excludes` parameters. This allows you to prune the stored `_source` field after it is indexed but before it is saved, as shown in the following example request:
```

```json
PUT logs
{
  "mappings": {
    "_source": {
      "includes": [
        "*.count",
        "meta.*"
      ],
      "excludes": [
        "meta.description",
        "meta.other.*"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Although these fields are not stored in the `_source`, you can still search on them, as the data is still indexed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These fields are not stored in the `_source`, but you can still search them because the data remains indexed.
```

---
layout: default
title: Source
nav_order: 40

> has_children: false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

parent: Metadata fields
---

# Source

The `_source` field contains the original JSON document body that was passed at index time. This field is not indexed and is not searchable but is stored so that it can be returned when executing fethc requests such as `get` and `search`.

## Disabling the field

You can disable the `_source` field as shown in the following example:

```json
PUT sample-index1
{
  "mappings": {
    "_source": {
      "enabled": false
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Disabling the `_source` field can cause certain featues to become not supported, such as `update`, `update_by_query`, and `reindex` APIs and the ability to debug queries or aggregations by using the the original document at index time.
{: .warning}

## Including or excluding fields

> You can prune contents of the `_source` field after the document has been indexed but before the field is stored. You can use the `includes` and excludes` parameters to control which field are included in the stored `_source` field, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can prune contents of the `_source` field after the document has been indexed but before the field is stored. You can use the `includes` and `excludes` parameters to control which field are included in the stored `_source` field, as shown in the following example:
```

(randomly stumbled over this 😅 - noticed it because of the syntax highlighting on GH)

> 

Reviewer 4: Disabling the single field also has same behavior as that of disabling the whole source. We should mention that in this section too.
